Python is a programming language       . Not just any programming language: it’s currently
one of the most popular in the world.     Whichever type of ranking you use, Python usually
ends up in    or just under the top five. It even seems to be the most discussed language on
Reddit’s programming forum .
Why is this important? There are two main reasons why you should care. The first is
that a more     popular language has a larger user base    . If you run into an issue, there is a better
chance that someone else has run into      the same problem, and they might have already solved
it . Almost the best thing about the internet is that it’s full of programming resources. Simply
search for your problem (or error message) and you are very likely to find the solution on
Stack Overflow           or a similar programming forum.
The second reason you should care about how widespread your programming language is,
is that it could inform you how     beneficial it is to learn it. If you learn a very obscure language,
such as E-basic (from E-Prime) or PCL (from Presentation), you will be perfectly able to
do most of what you want in your academic research. However, you might find it hard to
find any other employers that will be       interested in your obscure skill. If you care about your
CV, it would be better to learn a language that other labs or companies are familiar with. For
example, in academia you will have better chances of being hired if you know Matlab or
Python. Outside academia, more web-oriented languages are usually preferred, such as Java,
PHP , and Python  . Therefore, knowing Python could be good for your career.
One of the reasons Python is so popular is that it is very versatile. You can use it to make
computer games, do PC-to-PC communication, or to run websites. As an experimental
psychologist, this versatility means that you will be able to use it to not only create your
own experiment scripts, but also to do an automated analysis of your data. In addition, you
could use Python scripting and a webcam to spy on co-workers (Stop stealing my cookies,
Nancy!), or to do exciting computer vision projects.
Another reason for Python’s popularity is that it is easy to use. Python scripts are readable.
Very readable. So readable, in fact, that some compare it to reading English. While that is
definitely an exaggeration, script readability is one of Python’s strong points. It appeals to
new users , like you, who should be able to pick up the language relatively quickly.
Obviously   , there are also downsides to using Python. Experienced programmers will
point out that it is a relatively slow language – and they are right      . Python is sluggish,
especially compared with ‘proper’ programming languages (like C and C++)   . Fortunately,
there will be very few times when this will be an issue, because Python will still work faster
than you need. Even when you run into speed issues, some clever soul will have found a
way to solve them . The NumPy library, which you will get to know later, is an example of
how you can do quick calculations in Python (its underlying source is not native Python,
which is irrelevant to users, but makes it quicker). Despite its appeal, some people will
move on to more basic languages after learning Python. Yet, even for them, Python was a
good first language to learn the core concepts of programming.
In sum, Python is good for beginners, and for those who like a versatile and userfriendly
programming language .